so this week we've looked at something
perfection
and
there weren't that many questions uh on
paul everywhere
so it seems like it was relatively easy
enough to understand um
so i guess maybe the main difficulty is
the notation so i just want to go
through the definition again
and make sure that all the pieces of the
extensive form game
are clear and then we'll look at some
typical examples that you could
encounter in assignments and exams
[Music]
um
i always forget how to
how to bring
the comments
the chat to a different screen
hmm
otherwise i won't be able to see your
questions if i share
[Music]
chat
excellent
all right
so an extensive form game the formal
definition is relatively long
and
um but the intuition is that there's a
game tree
and that at each
non-terminal mode in the game tree some
player decides
where
the game moves next
and
in
in the same way as before we have n
strategic players who care about the
payoffs that they receive at the end of
the game
and that there's one
non-strategic player nature who resolves
exogenous random moves so this could be
the cards that are distributed in poker
it could be
um
[Music]
it could be
the weather it could be how honest the
politician is
um
any type of uncertainty that we have in
the model can be represented by a move
of nature
and i didn't specify it in the slides
but n here stands for nature
then
at the terminal nodes the
the strategic players receive a utility
but nature doesn't and that's why we say
nature is non-strategic because nature
doesn't care which outcome is reached
and how do the players make decision
well all the non-terminal nodes belong
to some player
but players might not necessarily
be able to distinguish
two nodes if they are in the same
information set
so this is what we use information s4 to
capture that in this case here player
one cannot distinguish whether nature
has chosen left or right
then i got a question on
on
paul everywhere what the difference is
between x i and h i
so x i are all the nodes where
um
where
player i makes a decision
but h i is sort of a partition
of all those nodes into
nodes that they can distinguish
so h is a partition on the set of all
nodes where i takes a decision
so for example here h i is just a single
set
for
player 1
but x1 contains both nodes
for player 3 here
player 3 has two information sets and
formally hi is
the set of
both of those sets whereas x i is the
set of nodes
um i guess if i'll
write this down here then we would have
um
x 3
is
um
let's say
it's called the left one xl the right
one xr
whereas h3
is
the set of sets
is a partition of
x so it contains these two information
sets
just a minor minor detail but um in
general hi will be sets whereas though
here we have individual nodes
and
the actions that the players take
there's a bijection between
um
between the nodes
that can be reached and the actions
taken
so in a sense we could instead of
labeling the actions with l and r we
could just
label the actions with the nodes that
will be reached from there
um
and in order to make sure that players
really cannot distinguish nodes in the
same information set
we
require that any two nodes in the same
information sets at any
such nodes the players have the same
actions available
so here it would not be possible to draw
this as
an information set as a single
information set of player three
like this would not be possible because
because player three
can distinguish those two nodes simply
because here they have three actions
available whereas in the left node they
only have two
are any questions about
the definition of an extensive forum
game
all right seems to be clear
then
we've seen two ways how we can solve it
or i guess
in general what we want to look at here
is
sub game perfection but we motivated sub
game perfection through backward
induction
so
the concept of backward induction
in a tree is that we start at the end of
the tree and we solve the tree backwards
um
[Music]
where we always look at the optimal
decision of each player given that
everybody else afterwards also acts
optimally
and we have to find this for games with
perfect information which are games with
um
where all the
information sets are singletons and
nature does not have any moves
now i'll come to an example just in a
moment but
if we look at this as a solution concept
then it is a very desirable solution
concept in
extensive form games with perfect
information
because in that case there always exists
a backward induction solution
and
if no two terminal nodes award the same
payoffs to any player then at each node
in the tree nobody is indifferent
between
the
the actions they can take
because they are not indifferent for any
two terminal nodes
and
because of that
then at each node there will be a unique
decision that every player is willing to
make and if we go backwards 33 we can
show that there'll be a unique outcome
that is consistent with backward
induction
and this condition here
that no two terminal nodes award the
same payoff so any player this is what
we say generically true so for almost
all numbers that we can choose
um
that will be true
so here i had one question paul
everywhere
why the solution is unique and
yeah the the reason is really that
generically here means
that if we were to select uniformly at
random the terminal payoffs the no two
payoffs would be degree would would be
the same with probability one and that's
what we call generic
any questions about
this
property
now generically if no two payoffs are
the same
for any player then
it's also robust to perturbations of
of payoff changes because if if not two
are the same then also for slide
perturbation no two are the same
and
the drawback of backward induction is
that we don't it doesn't necessarily
tell us what to do if there's a nonsense
information set and that's where we then
looked at sub imperfection
but let's see
backward induction in action so let's
start with the simpler game the one to
the right
and if we solve it backwards then
we simply check player three here
at this top note or choose either
between tau or beta
and we see that tau gives them two
whereas beta gives them one so by
backward induction they should choose
tau
now player 2
can anticipate this
knowing that player 3 is irrational
player 2 knows player 3 will choose top
and that player 2 will get 1 if they
choose top
so player 2 will choose bottom where
they get three
and then player one we don't know yet we
have to solve the other half of the tree
first so player one here will choose top
because they get three instead of one
and then
here player three will choose top
because they get three instead of one
and then finally
um player one will get
two for choosing pop and
three for choosing bottom
so it will choose bottom
now the game to the left here
on the left hand side
player 2 will always choose left
but on the right hand side player two is
indifferent between left and right
and could they could take any decision
and whether or not player one will
choose left or right will depend on what
player two chooses down here
and if we were to write down
those decisions then if
so let's say um player 2 chooses here
left with probability x whoops that was
not the right
here
annotate all right
if it chooses x and then one minus x
right
then if
x is larger
i guess one-third
then this means that the expected payoff
of player one will be
larger than one
so
maybe if we go
if we write down
the expected payoff of player 1 for
choosing right so let's say u1
uh choosing right
player 2's decision let's call it 2
so the expected payoff here
is
well 3x
so this is larger equal or less
than 1
if and only if
x is large or equal or less than one
third
so if x is larger than one third
then
or actually let's write down the sub
imperfect equilibria so all the spe
are
okay let's call the left node of player
2 h2l
the left information set
always
l has to be chosen
and then we have
for all
x
larger than one third
we have
player
one
choosing
right
and
smaller than one third
player
one choosing left
and if x is equal to one third
then
player one
oops
can't play anything
so any mixed action
this should be a calligraphic a but i
think it's clear from context
so there's a continuum
of
um sub imperfect equilibria here
but only three outcomes are possible
only this one
this one and this one
let's see let's see
paul everywhere maybe i'm explaining too
much maybe this was clear to everybody
so let's see what you have replied
to the poll everywhere questions
all right first
definition i guess of extensive form
game no two pure strategies lead to the
same terminal note
that is correct
um
because game trees can never merge again
so the
a property of a tree is that
no two different branches can connect
and we motivated this with the game of
chess
where
the game is not the same if the piece is
returned to the same position on the
board because the history matters for
the continuation game through various
things through the drawing rule
through
um
passing rights or whose turn it is
and so a
state or a node in the game tree
describes the entire state of the game
not just
let's say some physical state
so no two pure strategies lead to the
same thermal node
every thermal node can be reached by a
pure strategy this is false
perhaps surprising to many um but
there's no there's no way how you could
have known this um
we will talk about this next week
and it'll precisely be
the reason when a sub imperfect
equilibrium always exists is when
um
any node can be reached by a pure
strategy
now we'll see we'll see an example next
week
if information is imperfect then it is
incomplete that is
um
false
so incomplete information means
not knowing some
payoff relevant
quantity um
let's say if
we're playing poker and we don't know
the cards of our opponent then this is
incomplete information
um
if
if we are bidding in an auction we don't
know what the other players will bid
this is incomplete information because
we don't know how much they value the
good
imperfect information is anything
is any nonsense of an information set or
if nature
has moves
then every extensive form game has a
nash equilibrium
this is correct
um
because extensive form gain by the
definition is finite
and
so if we look at the reduced strategic
form it will be some finite
simultaneous move game and by nash's
existence theorem it must have a nash
equilibrium course this is no longer
true if we have a continuum of actions
and the payoff functions are too ugly
any single static game can be the
reduced strategic form of many extensive
form games
that is true
as an example we have seen in the
maybe the bail-in bailout game that we
have seen
so two
extensive form games with the same
reduced strategic form
maybe let me do this a bit larger
so
left
right
right could be
and
a simultaneous move game
they both
have the same
reduced strategic form
or i mean i guess the depending on the
payoffs that we assign here uh when
player 12 is left
because both have
only one information set and
therefore they reduce the gg form will
be the same
then
suppose a pure strategy is a book with
instructions on what to do in any given
situation so it's a strategy essentially
and going to the library and picking a
book at random is that a mixed store
behavior strategy
it is a
mixed strategy
because
all the randomness resolved its results
at the beginning
and once you have a book
then from then on it will be a pure
strategy because we follow exactly um
the prescriptions by the book
question
does four and five also hold for
countable actions
um
well uncountable i'm assuming
is what you mean so uncountable like i
mentioned in that case it does not
necessarily exist
and so extensive form by the definition
is finite but if we look at
an continuum of actions uncountable then
it's not necessarily true that it has an
equilibrium because not even um
static gains have a nash equilibrium
and
here
i mean we could
um
we could construct a similar example
like we've had before where
um
or player where the second player only
gets to take a move after one certain
action
then
they'll be
you'll be the same
have the same
reduced strategic form as the
simultaneous move game so five is is
true but four is not
any other questions about the answers
we've gone through so far
there were a few questions about mixing
and behavior strategy so let me
go over that again
um
so
i think one nice way to think about it
is if we play rock paper scissors and
maybe it's easier if there's only two
rounds of rock paper and scissors
if we play a mixed strategy
then
at the beginning of the game we would
resolve randomness 10 times
so mix um
we would resolve randomness at the
beginning so um
realize
let's call this
a1 maybe for the first action and
a two for each possible history
for all
histories and there are nine possible
histories because
people could
each can take three decisions and so we
have to resolve 10
um
or choose
randomize for 10 possible actions that
we could take because after the
beginning we have to follow pure
strategy and the pure strategy will tell
us for each possible outcome of the
first game what do we do in the second
game
but for a mixed
and for behavior strategy
we only resolve the randomness before we
take an action
and so in that case behavior we would
only take randomized
we would only realize
our mixed distributions twice
specifically a1 and then a2
for whichever outcome we observed in the
beginning
did that make it a bit clearer what
the difference is between mix and
behavior let me get
back to mixing behavior strategies when
we discuss sub-game perfection maybe
that will make it even more clear
how many outcomes are consistent with
backward induction in the game to the
left and we've seen that there were
three
outcomes that were consistent
because three terminal nodes can be
reached
and solutions here are many strategy
profiles we've seen that there are
infinitely many
because
player two is willing to mix at the
right node
seven
was seven the right answer
i thought it was eight let me see
um
oh no seven yeah yeah seven is correct
yes seven is correct
good
then let's discuss something perfection
um
but are there any questions up to
back induction how we solve these two
games
um can i ask why the left game
the reachable
solution is three why not two
because
player 2
is willing to mix at the right
information set
so
all those outcomes are possible
in some sub-imperfect equilibrium
so you're right that for a given
well actually
there is even one top imperfect
equilibrium in which all of them are
possible which is if
player two chooses left here with one
third right with two thirds and player
one
mixes in the first stage
okay i see thank you
then top imperfection
um
the answer of question six let me see
the answer here is mixed it's a mixed
strategy
because all the randomness is resolved
at the beginning
in something perfect equilibria how do
we find them
so we start at the
back of the tree and parts of this tree
can be solved by backward induction so
for parts of it we can go backwards up
until there's no
singleton information sets anymore
and then
this is all we can say
with backward induction because now here
at this right information set player two
does not know um
whether they are in the left node or the
right node so they don't know what to
expect um happens after they take their
move
but the idea of soft perfection is that
well
we might not know
um
the room i don't know at which node they
are but if we just look at
the continuation game that starts from
from here from this node
then
what we get is a
a game
where all the players know that they are
playing the game because no information
set
connects both nodes from this
set of nodes and somewhere else in the
tree
so if every player knows that they're
playing this game
then we have seen a solution concept
with which we can solve such a game nash
equilibrium
and the idea of subkin perfection is
then that for all
such subgames that can be common
knowledge among the players
we want the strategy profile to be a
nash equilibrium in this subgame
so if it is common knowledge that
players are playing this game we called
it a proper sub game
and if we go through this tree then we
solve
the tree backwards
um
solving sub games increasing in size so
after solving
the parts we can solve for backward
induction we would solve these two games
here
this one here and for all of them we
would look at the set of all nash
equilibria in this game
then we go back a step
and we solve the next larger sub games
so now that we know what the solution is
to the right sub game here
now we can
analyze what player 2 will do at this
node
they know that still gets this outcome
here
so here this outcome
if they choose left
and
for the right outcome they don't know
exactly what outcome is reached but they
know
what their expected payoff would be for
each
continuation
strategy profile that is in ash
equilibrium
so here player player 3 can compute or
player 2 can compute the expected
utility
of
some strategy profile some nash
equilibrium displayed in this subject
order to find all subgame perfect
equilibria
um
we have to
look at all possible
combinations of subgame perfect
equilibria in the sub games
so let's see here in the left one
if both of these games have three
nash equilibria then we need to look at
all the nine combinations of
continuation equilibria to find all
the national equilibria of this larger
sub-game
is any question so far
and
this could be quite a tedious procedure
so if you have to
if you have nine combinations of
equilibria here it's already a lot of
work to find the equilibrium in the left
sub game and then an entire game would
be a lot of work
luckily in the class you won't typically
solve games that are this large
so let's see
a typical example let's first go to the
example
and
so here i noticed that in the example
that i gave in the slides i flipped
these these two payoffs accidentally so
this is slightly different from the
question that i asked
but what we do what would we do in this
game here we would
first again solve the right hand side by
backward induction as far as we can
and then
and then we would solve the sub game
here
by
finding all nash equilibria
so let's
write this down as a strategic form game
so we have
lambda
row
and then left
right
four four then row left three one
one three
two two
and if we look at best responses four is
definitely the best response by both
players because they get the maximum
payoff
and then if
player
two chooses right player one can get one
or two so two is the best response
by symmetry
right right is also a nash equilibrium
and this game also has a mixed nash
equilibrium you can verify this
has mixed
nash equilibrium
which is
50 where they mix 50 50. so let's say
one half
lambda
with utilities
five half for each player
so what does this mean for finding
something perfect equilibria
in
the entire game we have to go through
all possible
continuation equilibria so let's call
let's call this one here let's call this
sigma one let's call this sigma two and
let's call this sigma 3.
so if
sigma 1 is played
let's call this sub game here g1
if sigma 1 is played in g1 then
the player 1 knows that they will get
left
if they go into the sub game but they
will only get
three
if they choose right
so player one
chooses
left
if any of the other nash equilibrium is
played then player one gets either two
here or
two and a half
which is less than they get
if they choose right
because they get three if they choose
right
and so we have
three sub imperfect equilibria in this
case
for each of the continuation equilibria
there is a unique best reply by player 1
at the beginning of the game
and this is a very typical example that
you could encounter in
assignment or exam
are there any questions about how we
solve this
so what happens here is that
player one's decision in the beginning
of the game depends on what player one
expects will happen if the sub game is
reached
so this is similar to the nuclear
deterrence game that we have seen
and if player 1 expect that
any of the other nash equilibria will
arise so sigma 2 or sigma 3
then
player 1 will choose right and whether
their beliefs were correct or incorrect
um don't matter at this point
um
because it's off the path
now in a subgame perfect equilibrium the
beliefs are correct and
so um
[Music]
so player one is right in choosing right
are any questions about this
so let's see your replies
in
in poll everywhere
i see some of you are still taking notes
um
it will also be available in the video
um that i upload afterwards
so let me move on and
sorry yes
uh can you say again uh
uh words in on the board
it's not korea
i'm not sure why or what it means which
part
um
you you transform the the extensive
game to the
strategic game
yes the the note
a few few seconds ago
yeah
yes
but yeah
yes yes yes and
oh wow
what what what's that downwards mean
uh wi
uh under the sigma three
with utilities five five
with utility okay okay thank you
sorry
both how many spes do we have we get
three sub imperfect equilibria
um
how many outcomes are possible
oh i guess outcomes was missing
out comes two
because if we go back here
and we see that the only outcomes that
are possible is this one or this one
all right player one will only choose
left if
left left is chosen in the sub game
two outcomes are possible but there are
three sub-game perfect equilibria
and we see that the number of outcomes
could be larger or smaller than the
number of sub-imperfect equilibria
then
a nash equilibrium yes question
sorry i'm a little bit confused can we
go back to
yeah this part
so as you mentioned um
player one can faces three strategy like
uh he can sing that four four could be
the answer and two two can be an answer
also that makes strategy one
so
why it should not be
also a september equally bro
which one
um that makes one
oh there is a sub game perfect
equilibrium for the mixed one um we see
here both sigma two or sigma three
but both of them leads to a utility that
is lower than
player one gets ah
so so it goes to the three one okay
yeah sure thanks
yes question
sorry can you explain again what is the
relationship between second perfect
libra and the outcome like the amount of
the
situation you say one is three and one
is two i i kind of missed
yes yeah
um
so with outcome the outcome of an
extensive form gain is the terminal node
that is reached
and
is it clear how
how we find us up in perfect equilibrium
yes i can understand it but i could not
write i i cannot quite get the
relationship between them
once we once we know what the subgame
perfect equilibria are we can simply see
which
which terminal nodes can be reached
so for sigma 1
or the sub imperfect equilibrium in
which sigma 1 is played we get
left left
left
so we get this outcome
and for the subject perfect equilibrium
sigma 2 we get right right
and for sigma 3 we also get right right
so we see that both subgame perfect
equilibria lead to the same terminal
node
and that's why there's only two outcomes
that are possible
but there are three strategy profiles
that rationalize this
so we have to like if the question is
asked about the subgame performance
crypto we have to write down
uh
sigma 1 sigma 2 and sigma 3 with the uh
corresponding uh player 1 choice am i
correct yes correct yeah okay formally
formally if we write down now these
strategy profiles we would write down a
decision for all
for all players so we could say
i mean the way it was stated on the
previous slide is acceptable but let's
say if you want to be formal about it
we can say
kspe
sigma
[Music]
let's call it sigma hat one
it's called sigma hat i guess
is defined by okay
sigma
hat
one at
their first information set
l
sigma hat
one
at their
second information set
the left information set
chooses left
and at the right information set
chooses raw
or in a more compact form
we could write this as
l
lambda
rho
and then the other spe in the compact
form would be
r
[Music]
our
row
so that's when we get
the
this equilibrium here
in the sub game
and then the last one would be the mixed
one
um
would write r maybe one half
lambda plus one half
row i guess this is row
um
and
one half left plus one half right
row
so this would sort of be a way to write
down all three subgame perfect
equilibria in the end
any questions
how about the right hand side is still
right hand side can be a sub can perfect
equilibrium
yeah so for the right hand side player 2
always has to choose row so this was
what i indicated here
so the right information set
player 2 always has to choose row no
matter what's up in perfect equilibrium
any other questions
all right
then
let me
sorry so we don't have to write the
small
lower l and small r
that the player two
action
i mean it's
uh small l or
or r is first here
so this compact
notation here this says the first action
is
let's say the the initial information
set the second action is what do we do
at the second information set
this would be the left one
and this is the right one
it's just
writing it down in this form here is
always
takes up a lot of space
and so sometimes it's easier to just
write in this compact form but you
should be clear
it should be clear from context which
information set this is in which order
okay
all right then
let's talk about
existence of it
um
i exist in this next week but
i got some questions about the proof of
proposition 3.9 so
let me walk you through that again
so
one student asked whether i can
summarize three point proposition 3.9
without the math
and so typically the description
afterwards is the interpretation of the
result without the math so here um
proposition 3.9
is
that the meaning really is that
any nash equilibrium is something
perfect on the equilibrium path and
subclaim perfection refines only
behavior of the path
so how can we see this in the math
notation so a node
x
has positive probability only on the
path of the strategy profile sigma
and so this means here that the
restriction to this
sub game so on the path
it's already sub game perfect because
the definition of softkey imperfection
says
the restriction to any subgame is a nash
equilibrium of the subgame
and so if we start here with our
original nash equilibrium then the
restriction on the path already
satisfies the condition that has to be
satisfied by subgame perfection
and the interpretation really is
any nash equilibrium is already
something perfect on the equilibrium
path
and this will be true for future
refinements that we see as well so
on the path
nash equilibrium is already
as optimal as it can get
the consequence of this result is that
we have
a completely mixed strategy this means
that every node in the tree
is on the path then
such a nash equilibrium is sub imperfect
for the proof of the result
i
figured we can do the proof visually
so here in the tree
we have the probability distribution by
let's say some nash equilibrium some
nash equilibrium sigma
so this here is p sigma
and
we want to show that it has to be
optimal in a subgame that is reached
with positive probability and so this
sub game here g of x is reached with
positive probability
and
the way we prove it is we suppose
that there is a profitable deviation in
this sub gain
then
there is a profitable deviation in the
entire game
okay so suppose that player one changes
from
from their original strategy to some
different strategy sigma tilde in the
sub game
then
if they now choose right here with
probability one
then we see that the probability
distribution
does not change outside the sub game
so any terminal node outside the sub
game is reached with identical
probability
and
the sub game itself is also reached with
the same probability because the
probability with which we reach the sub
game depends only on actions taken
before
so formally
we can say that p sigma
of
of x here is identical to p
sigma tilde
right so this is how we would write down
that the sub game is reached with the
same probability in the two strategies
now if this deviation
in the sub game if this deviation is
profitable
then
then the expected utility
after reaching the subgame
has to be larger than in the original
strategy profile
so the way to understand this expected
or this conditional expectation is okay
the expected
payoff
given
that we have reached the sub gain
so now we arrive at a contradiction if
this deviation is profitable
then
choosing sigma tilde in the subgame is
already an improvement is also an
improvement in the entire game
because
it is reached with positive probability
and
we do strictly better in the
deviation we see that it is necessary
that it's on the path
if this sub game here was reached with
probability zero then it wouldn't matter
that there is an improvement for the
nash criterion
so formally
so here if we
write this down formally with all the
individual steps in between
then
the expected utility
in
the deviation here so this is the
deviation
then
we can distinguish this
so we condition on whether the subgame
is reached or not
so this here is known as the law of
total probability
um
where we can condition on
two disjoint events
and
weigh each of those event with the
probability that they arise
now as illustrated on the previous slide
the probability of reaching the sub game
is the same as under the original
strategy
so those two are the same
you expect the utility outside from
terminal nodes outside the sub game is
also the same
because the distribution doesn't change
and then in the sub game we have found
that sigma tilde i is a profitable
deviation so it's strictly larger
this term here is strictly larger
than this term here
and so this way we arrive at
a contradiction that
sigma can't have been a nash equilibrium
so here p sigma x is really the
probability with which the subgame is
reached
are any questions
so i think the proof is quite
instructive of what it means to be a
nash equilibrium and
why a nash equilibrium does not have to
be perfect off the path
because off the path
everything happens
with probability zero and
it has does not affect
the expected utility at the beginning of
the game
but anything that is on the path matters
already for the nash criterion and so a
nash equilibrium is optimal on its path
this brings me to the summary
of this week's class
the most important part is again not
sucked in perfection but it's the fact
that rational players look ahead
and anticipate how others will respond
to their behavior
and so in any tree kind of structure
that we have in any extensive form game
we solve the game backwards through the
tree
and in
these games that we've seen so far this
meant that we look at subgame perfect
equilibria
now some of you have asked what is the
difference between supply perfect
equilibrium backward induction
i mean supreme perfect equilibrium
reduces to backward induction
in games with perfect information
then
another important conceptual property
of this week's class is that nash
equilibria are already optimal on the
path
so only
off the path is where subgane perfection
leads to any any improvement
then we have seen
backward induction and sub imperfection
today with finitely many actions let me
also show one example with infinitely
many
um
so consider a situation where
we have a current policy p0 that's the
player's
or that the government has implemented
and they would like to change its policy
you would like to suggest a different
policy p
and
suppose that we're in a direct democracy
where any policy chains has
any policy policy change has to be
approved by the median voter
and the median voter can either approve
or reject this suggested policy
now whether the median voter will
approve or reject depends on whether
they prefer
new policy
and
their optimal policy their preferred
policy is p star
so the closer a policy is to pe star um
the more likely the median voter is to
accept it
now for the government's preferences to
make the game simple let's suppose that
the government prefers
strictly higher policies so policies
here are represented on
a real line and
in taiwan there's always a discussion
about the nuclear power should you keep
the nuclear power or should you not and
so higher could mean
um
could be mean that we end nuclear power
sooner um
and lower policy could mean that we end
it we keep it for a long period of time
and so there's some kind of a continuum
of policies how soon you can fade out
nuclear power
now
how do we solve this game well backwards
right so we start with the median voter
or if we draw the game tree
the government has a continuum
of actions available
and then for each
the median voter can approve or reject
and
what
the median voter will do depends on
the suggested policy
so the utility function is
quadratic around p star
and
if p0 is somewhere here let's say
then we see that
that
the median motor is only willing to
accept the policy change to any
policy that is closer to b star
so if
p
zero is smaller than p star
actually i guess this is not this does
not depend on on the relation
so in any case
if
p
one
minus
p star is smaller or equal than p zero
minus p star
then a is the best response
and
and if it's
we have the opposite inequality then
um rejection is a unique best response
and then we looked at
the government's optimal decision
so let's write this down formally using
best response correspondences
let me use
an empty screen here
go here
so
what would the best response be
so the best response oh that's a bit too
bright
um
it's not sensitive enough
all right let's well i guess let's
return to zoom
here
all right um
the best response
by player two
to any p1
is
to accept
if
p
one minus
p star so if this is closer
to the preferred policy than the
original one then
any mixed action
if we have a quality
and
rejecting if we have the opposite
inequality
now
the government anticipates this response
and
knows that
so here we can parametrize
player two's best response i suppose
with
probability y
so let's write this as
probability yeah
so any strategy of
off
the median voter can be parametrized by
by x
and player 1's best response to x is
well
we choose we want to choose
or get a higher policy to be accepted
and
so i guess the expected utility for
for the firm
hey the government
um
a
is
on
[Music]
is p1
if
condition 1
in the case 1
is
x
p1 plus 1 minus x p0
f2
and p0 if
3.
and so we see that
if
x is strictly smaller
than
than one
then
it'll be your best response if it will
be a better response to propose
something that is strictly close
strictly closer to p star than the
current one
so
so if
x
equals one
then the best response is
p
[Music]
is the
the point at which
where we have equality here so um
there's two points the larger point of
it um
i guess we could write this as the
maximum
where
2 is satisfied
to keep notation short the maximum
policy where two is satisfied so there's
two where it is satisfied with the
quality and it's the larger one that the
government will choose
if x is smaller than one
the best responses
will be
empty
because we can always choose a policy
slightly larger
and
so let's say if x a smaller one and
p
so
if we look again at
at the graph of
player two's
preferences then if the original policy
is already larger than p star then
the government cannot improve
so that's what we have down here so if
p0 is larger or equal than p star then
it does not matter what
what the medians the median voter
responds
in that case p0 is optimal already
then if it is smaller then the
government can find an improvement but
doing so
only has the best response if
the voters accept
the equal policy with probability one
and so we see that the unique nash
equilibrium here
is
um
government
well proposes
p0 if p0 is smaller or equal than p star
no large or equal
larger equivalent p
star and
the other end point would be
um
so the idea is that if p0 is smaller
then we want to add this distance here
to the right hand side so we get p star
plus
p star minus p0 so that's 2p star minus
p0
and
what's the response
by
the median voter
what depends on the proposed policy
let's add this over here in this segment
so
median voter
i mean i guess we've already described
it but
um
consistent
in case two is only if x is equal to one
so
we will accept
if p1
well
there's not enough space here for me but
if one or two
that's unique something perfect
equilibrium
are there any questions
then
if there are no questions let me
maybe emphasize that it's important to
understand
how to solve something
perfect equilibrium conceptually because
there are many possible combinations of
questions that you could see so the
first player could have a continuum of
actions the second player finitely many
or it could be the other way around both
could have a continuum of actions both
could have finitely many
so there's lots of different
combinations of
of
number of actions that i could ask in a
question
and
there's not enough time to show all
possible combinations in an example in
the class
and so it's important that you
understand conceptually how do you solve
those backwards through the tree and
then um
and then with consistency
[Music]
good
um
let me see if there were any other are
there any other questions that we have
not addressed well there are some paul
everywhere questions that we have not
looked at
yeah this is correct
right so p sigma probability 0 means off
the path
and so
a nash equilibrium is optimal on the
path
so
it can only differ from a subtle
imperfect equilibrium on a set of nodes
with probability zero
so here this is false
so in an extensive form of the continuum
of actions
depending on the utility functions if
the utility functions
have
discontinuities that aren't
or that make sure that there is no best
response then there won't be a nash
equilibrium and hence also no subtly
imperfect equilibrium
right so for any game where there's no
nash equilibrium there also won't be any
sub game perfect equilibrium
so this is false
are there any questions
about any other part of
of the class
oh there was one question on paul
everywhere
about
an example of a game with
please give us an example of an
extensive form game in which nature
makes some move but all information sets
are singletons
all right so
this could be suppose somebody offers
you
either a dollar
okay let's say 100 ntd
or
to flip a coin and you can get at either
200 or zero depending on the outcome of
the coin
so you can um
no
so the tree in this case would be okay
so we can choose to either um
to either
take the coin i guess take
oh it's not a coin to take the 100 ntd
or to gamble
and if we gamble then nature here will
take a move so here we are player one
nature will have a move
how
the coin is resolved heads or tails
let's say if it's heads
then you get 200
and if it's tails you get zero
now
this is equivalent to the game
where nature gets the first move
decides whether the outcome is going to
be heads or tails
but we haven't observed that yet
then we choose to take
the money or to gamble
so if we take the money we get 100
and if we gamble then in this case we
get 200.
and so this is why we say that these
games have imperfect information if
nature has a move
because we want the game to
be independent of representation
and
there exists an equivalent
representation with non-singleton
information sets and
it should be
we want the solution to be the same so
we say
the game has imperfect information
[Music]
then lastly the last question i think
was about
games with or single player decision
problems
with with time on consistent preferences
so here
the example was one
about procrastination
where
some players can either be
inclined to procrastinate and defer
the homework to the future
but if they do so
they will have
to miss more and more fun events
to solve their homeworks
and we were able to solve this using
hyperbolic discounting
where sophie here has present bias and
she discounts the future the entire
future with one half everything except
today
um
but
constantine discounts nothing so
everything has utility one
and
so for constantine we can solve it
easily uh the game tree of
of writing the homework or
procrastinating is
utilities are strictly decreasing the
longer you wait
but this is not true if we have time and
consistent preferences
and with time and consistent preferences
we essentially solve a game against our
future selves
and
we can construct this tree from the back
so in the very last decision
only two outcomes are possible
either we write homework which is -13
or we
don't write the homework which is minus
20.
so this is the decision at the last node
then if we go back one period
then
now
sophie at this point has the option of
writing the homework right now which
gives minus eight
because sophie has time inconsistent
preferences if she discounts the future
by one half right now should use the
cost of solving it tomorrow as minus 6.5
because it's half of what it actually is
once she reaches tomorrow
and minus 10 for not solving it at all
so player 3 here
or
the third instance of sophie s2
will
will anticipate that her future self
will actually solve it
so that's why she will choose right now
p because she gets minus six
rather than minus eight
well
if we go back one period further now
there's another option so if we could
already solve it on day
one
in that case she gets minus five right
now
and
again she discounts the future
um by discount factor one half
so again
if she looks towards the very end of the
game she will think okay solving it on
the last day is minus 6.5 um
solving it
uh
tomorrow would be would give minus four
which is forward-looking enough to know
that she has
time commitment issues
so
she knows that her future self will
procrastinate
for one period before solving it
so she knows if she chooses p right now
she gets minus 6.5
which is worse than -5
so that's why she chooses to solve it
right now
and then we perform the same step at the
beginning of the game
solving it right now the homework has
minus three utility
and this is better than
um
and this is worse than procrastinating
for one period
because she knows her future self will
solve it tomorrow
from backward induction
but any questions about
about
these time inconsistent preferences
so if we have a delta
like two half so what is it changed the
game form in the last period
um
i mean so if
we have so delta is also one half
then
um
then we just have to make sure that we
discount
everything properly through the game
tree um
let's see how it would look like
so
i guess what we would get here is that
we would have to discount
let me
so in that case here we would have to
add delta
in addition to the one-half from beta
here because this is the payoffs for
sophie
at time 1 we would have to multiply with
delta square
and then here with delta cube
so here
with delta
delta square
delta
and then we go backwards
in the same way so again sophie at the
very end would choose to work to write
the homework
if we go back
then now we're comparing
eight
now we're comparing minus eight to
minus six point five delta and so minus
six point five delta is still better
than minus a no matter what delta is
so we'll also choose to
procrastinate
then
at this point here we're comparing
-5
to
[Music]
6.5 delta square
and now we see that it matters what
delta is
for some values of delta it's better to
do it right now for other values it's
better to procrastinate once more
and in this way we just go backwards to
three depending on the value of delta
good
if there are no other questions then i
mean if there are questions additional
questions
feel free to ask
either now through zoom or you can also
find me in in the office for the next
one and a half hours
if you have any additional questions
all right good
then this will be the end of today's
class
and next week we'll look at the
existence
result for sub imperfect equilibria and
why
some
terminal nodes cannot be reached by pure
strategies
all right
that's it for this week and i'll
the videos will be up
today or tomorrow